README.md, before:

#node-factories [![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/jkanschik/node-factories.png)](http://travis-ci.org/jkanschik/node-factories) [![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/jkanschik/node-factories.png)](https://codeclimate.com/github/jkanschik/node-factories) [![devDependency Status](https://david-dm.org/jkanschik/node-factories/dev-status.png)](https://david-dm.org/jkanschik/node-factories#info=devDependencies)

Node-factories is used to create test data in a simple way. It is inspired by [factory_girl](https://github.com/thoughtbot/factory_girl) which is used in the ruby-world.

Similar to factory_girl, it supports multiple build strategies (build(), attributes() and create()), sequences and traits to cover the typical requirements for generating test data.

## Installation

Node.js:

```
npm install node-factories
```

## Simple factories

Simple definition of a user:

```javascript
var factories = require('factories');
factories.define('user', {
  firstName: 'John',
  lastName: 'Doe',
  isAdmin: false
});
// build a user:
factories.user.build();
// build an array of 10 users
factories.user.build(10);
```

## Anonymous factories

Sometimes, we don't want to save our factory in the global namespace.  'factories.build()' will allow the anonymous creation of a factory that can be saved to a variable.  While it cannot be retrieved if the variable is lost, it is no longer in the way in a project that has a large number of complicated tests.

```javascript
var factories = require('factories');
var user_factory = factories.build({
  firstName: 'John',
  lastName: 'Doe',
  isAdmin: false
});
// build a user:
user_factory.build();
// build an array of 10 users
user_factory.build(10);
```


## Building strategies

There are different strategies to create a new object: 'attributes()' creates an Object with the attributes defined in the factory definition; 'build()' creates an Object with the prototype of the factory definition and 'create()' calls the 'create()' method on each object.

```javascript
factories.define('user', {
  //...
});
typeof factories.user.attributes();
// => 'object'
typeof factories.user.build();
// => 'object'
var User = function() {};
factories.define('userWithPrototype', User, {
  //...
});
typeof factories.user.attributes();
// => 'object'
typeof factories.user.build();
// => 'function'
```

## Lazy attributes

Instead of assigning static values to the attributes, lazy attributes can be defined. In this case, the attribute value in the definition of the object is a function, which is evaluated whenever an object is created.

```javascript
factories.define('user', {
  // ...
  createdAt: function() { return new Date(); }
});
```

## Dependent Attributes

When a factory is being built, the lazy attributes have access to the in-progress object using the variable 'this'.

```javascript
var factories = require('factories');
factories.define('user', {
  firstName: 'John',
  lastName: 'Doe',
  email: function() { return this.firstName + "." + this.lastName + "@example.com"; }
});
// build a user:
factories.user.build();
```

## Extending Attributes

Sometimes, there is a need to create multiple similar objects from the same factory where those objects are otherwise too distinct or interrelated for sequences. In such a situation, it is useful (and a common pattern) to override some or all of the fields, while still maintaining the power of the factories (including support for sequences and traits).


```javascript
var factories = require('factories');
factories.define('user', {
  firstName: 'John',
  lastName: 'Doe',
  isAdmin: false
});
// build a user:
factories.user.build();
// build a user named "Joe Doe"
factories.user.extend({firstName: "Joe"});
// build another user named "John Doe"
factories.user.build();
```


## Sequences

Sequences are used to generate unique values (as opposed to the users above, which all have the same name). Basically, node-factories maintains a counter for each sequence which is increased anytime an object is created. This counter is passed to a function, which determines the actual attribute value.

```javascript
var factories = require('factories');
factories.define('userWithMail', {
  firstName: 'John',
  lastName: 'Doe'
})
.sequence('email', function(i) {return 'person_' + i + '@example.com'});
// sequence starts with i=0:
factories.userWithMail.build().email
// => person_0@example.com
factories.userWithMail.build().email
// => person_1@example.com
```

Sequences can also be defined globally, i.e. they can be used in different factories.
```javascript
factories.sequence('email', function(i) {return 'person_' + i + '@example.com'});
factories.define(userWithMail, {
  // ...
})
.sequence('email');
factories.define(otherObject, {
  // ...
})
.sequence('email');
// the sequence is now increased globally:
factories.userWithMail.build().email
// => person_0@example.com
factories.otherObject.build().email
// => person_1@example.com
```

Sometimes, a factory has a sequence that needs to be reset.  This is especially true in multiple-test situations where some sequences have cyclical data (like day of week).  This is easily achieved by running factory.reset()

```javascript
var factories = require('factories');
factories.define('userWithMail', {
  firstName: 'John',
  lastName: 'Doe'
})
.sequence('email', function(i) {return 'person_' + i + '@example.com'});
// sequence starts with i=0:
factories.userWithMail.build().email
// => person_0@example.com
factories.userWithMail.reset();
factories.userWithMail.build().email
// => person_0@example.com

```

## Traits

You can use traits for advanced configuration:

```javascript
var factories = require('factories');
factories.define('user', {
  firstName: 'John',
  lastName: 'Doe',
  isAdmin: false
})
.trait('admin', { isAdmin: true } );
// build a normal user:
factories.user.build();
// and an admin:
factories.user.trait('admin').build();
```


## After Hooks

Sometimes, a factory just can't do everything you need, when you need it.  It cannot, for example, be used to automatically generate 1-to-many data against itself based upon the primary key.

```javascript
var factories = require('factories');
factories.define('user', User, {
  firstName: 'John',
  lastName: 'Doe',
  posts: function() {
    var user_id = this.id; //note, this doesn't work!
    factories.post.extend({id: user_id}).build(); //Which makes this impossible!
  }
});
```

The only correct solution, if you want to use the factory to build data like this, is to utilize after hooks.

```javascript
var factories = require('factories');
factories.define('user', User, {
  firstName: 'John',
  lastName: 'Doe',
}).afterCreate(function(object,createdObject,cb) {
  var user_id = this.id; //note, this does work!
  factories.post.extend({id: user_id}).build();
  cb();
});
```

The node-factories library supports 3 kinds of callback hooks. afterAttributes() adds a procedural hook after any build method has been called; afterBuild() adds a procedural hook after build() or create() (and it runs after the afterAttributes());  afterCalls adds an asynchronous hook after create() is called (and it runs after afterBuild() ).


```javascript
var factories = require('factories');
var userFactory = factories.define('user', User, {
  firstName: 'John',
  lastName: 'Doe',
});
userFactory.afterAttributes(function(object) {
  object.email = object.firstName + "." + object.lastName + "@example.com";
  return object;
});
userFactory.afterBuild(function(object) {
  object.id = 1; //This is not normally how you assign id, but it makes the afterCreate work in this contrived example.
  return object;
});
userFactory.afterCreate(function(object,createdObject,cb) {
  var user_id = this.id; //note, this does work!
  factories.post.extend({id: user_id}).build();
  cb();
});
```

A few notes about these hooks.  If you do not provide a value for object (or createdObject for create()) in the return or callback, the previous value will be reassigned to it.  If you do not run the callback in afterCreate, then create() will never respond with its callback.

Commit message:

Added readme for after_hooks

README.md, after:

#node-factories [![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/jkanschik/node-factories.png)](http://travis-ci.org/jkanschik/node-factories) [![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/jkanschik/node-factories.png)](https://codeclimate.com/github/jkanschik/node-factories) [![devDependency Status](https://david-dm.org/jkanschik/node-factories/dev-status.png)](https://david-dm.org/jkanschik/node-factories#info=devDependencies)

Node-factories is used to create test data in a simple way. It is inspired by [factory_girl](https://github.com/thoughtbot/factory_girl) which is used in the ruby-world.

Similar to factory_girl, it supports multiple build strategies (build(), attributes() and create()), sequences and traits to cover the typical requirements for generating test data.

## Installation

Node.js:

```
npm install node-factories
```

## Simple factories

Simple definition of a user:

```javascript
var factories = require('factories');
factories.define('user', {
  firstName: 'John',
  lastName: 'Doe',
  isAdmin: false
});
// build a user:
factories.user.build();
// build an array of 10 users
factories.user.build(10);
```

## Anonymous factories

Sometimes, we don't want to save our factory in the global namespace.  'factories.build()' will allow the anonymous creation of a factory that can be saved to a variable.  While it cannot be retrieved if the variable is lost, it is no longer in the way in a project that has a large number of complicated tests.

```javascript
var factories = require('factories');
var user_factory = factories.build({
  firstName: 'John',
  lastName: 'Doe',
  isAdmin: false
});
// build a user:
user_factory.build();
// build an array of 10 users
user_factory.build(10);
```


## Building strategies

There are different strategies to create a new object: 'attributes()' creates an Object with the attributes defined in the factory definition; 'build()' creates an Object with the prototype of the factory definition and 'create()' calls the 'create()' method on each object.

```javascript
factories.define('user', {
  //...
});
typeof factories.user.attributes();
// => 'object'
typeof factories.user.build();
// => 'object'
var User = function() {};
factories.define('userWithPrototype', User, {
  //...
});
typeof factories.user.attributes();
// => 'object'
typeof factories.user.build();
// => 'function'
```

## Lazy attributes

Instead of assigning static values to the attributes, lazy attributes can be defined. In this case, the attribute value in the definition of the object is a function, which is evaluated whenever an object is created.

```javascript
factories.define('user', {
  // ...
  createdAt: function() { return new Date(); }
});
```

## Dependent Attributes

When a factory is being built, the lazy attributes have access to the in-progress object using the variable 'this'.

```javascript
var factories = require('factories');
factories.define('user', {
  firstName: 'John',
  lastName: 'Doe',
  email: function() { return this.firstName + "." + this.lastName + "@example.com"; }
});
// build a user:
factories.user.build();
```

## Extending Attributes

Sometimes, there is a need to create multiple similar objects from the same factory where those objects are otherwise too distinct or interrelated for sequences. In such a situation, it is useful (and a common pattern) to override some or all of the fields, while still maintaining the power of the factories (including support for sequences and traits).


```javascript
var factories = require('factories');
factories.define('user', {
  firstName: 'John',
  lastName: 'Doe',
  isAdmin: false
});
// build a user:
factories.user.build();
// build a user named "Joe Doe"
factories.user.extend({firstName: "Joe"});
// build another user named "John Doe"
factories.user.build();
```


## Sequences

Sequences are used to generate unique values (as opposed to the users above, which all have the same name). Basically, node-factories maintains a counter for each sequence which is increased anytime an object is created. This counter is passed to a function, which determines the actual attribute value.

```javascript
var factories = require('factories');
factories.define('userWithMail', {
  firstName: 'John',
  lastName: 'Doe'
})
.sequence('email', function(i) {return 'person_' + i + '@example.com'});
// sequence starts with i=0:
factories.userWithMail.build().email
// => person_0@example.com
factories.userWithMail.build().email
// => person_1@example.com
```

Sequences can also be defined globally, i.e. they can be used in different factories.
```javascript
factories.sequence('email', function(i) {return 'person_' + i + '@example.com'});
factories.define(userWithMail, {
  // ...
})
.sequence('email');
factories.define(otherObject, {
  // ...
})
.sequence('email');
// the sequence is now increased globally:
factories.userWithMail.build().email
// => person_0@example.com
factories.otherObject.build().email
// => person_1@example.com
```

Sometimes, a factory has a sequence that needs to be reset.  This is especially true in multiple-test situations where some sequences have cyclical data (like day of week).  This is easily achieved by running factory.reset()

```javascript
var factories = require('factories');
factories.define('userWithMail', {
  firstName: 'John',
  lastName: 'Doe'
})
.sequence('email', function(i) {return 'person_' + i + '@example.com'});
// sequence starts with i=0:
factories.userWithMail.build().email
// => person_0@example.com
factories.userWithMail.reset();
factories.userWithMail.build().email
// => person_0@example.com

```

## Traits

You can use traits for advanced configuration:

```javascript
var factories = require('factories');
factories.define('user', {
  firstName: 'John',
  lastName: 'Doe',
  isAdmin: false
})
.trait('admin', { isAdmin: true } );
// build a normal user:
factories.user.build();
// and an admin:
factories.user.trait('admin').build();
```


## After Hooks

Sometimes, a factory just can't do everything you need, when you need it.  It cannot, for example, be used to automatically generate 1-to-many data against itself based upon the primary key.

```javascript
var factories = require('factories');
factories.define('user', User, {
  firstName: 'John',
  lastName: 'Doe',
  posts: function() {
    var user_id = this.id; //note, this doesn't work!
    factories.post.extend({id: user_id}).build(); //Which makes this impossible!
  }
});
```

The only correct solution, if you want to use the factory to build data like this, is to utilize after hooks.

```javascript
var factories = require('factories');
factories.define('user', User, {
  firstName: 'John',
  lastName: 'Doe',
}).afterCreate(function(object,createdObject,cb) {
  var user_id = this.id; //note, this does work!
  factories.post.extend({id: user_id}).build();
  cb();
});
```

The node-factories library supports 3 kinds of callback hooks. afterAttributes() adds a procedural hook after any build method has been called; afterBuild() adds a procedural hook after build() or create() (and it runs after the afterAttributes());  afterCalls adds an asynchronous hook after create() is called (and it runs after afterBuild() ).


```javascript
var factories = require('factories');
var userFactory = factories.define('user', User, {
  firstName: 'John',
  lastName: 'Doe',
});
userFactory.afterAttributes(function(object) {
  object.email = object.firstName + "." + object.lastName + "@example.com";
  return object;
});
userFactory.afterBuild(function(object) {
  object.id = 1; //This is not normally how you assign id, but it makes the afterCreate work in this contrived example.
  return object;
});
userFactory.afterCreate(function(object,createdObject,cb) {
  var user_id = this.id; //note, this does work!
  factories.post.extend({id: user_id}).build();
  cb();
});
```

A few notes about these hooks.  If you do not provide a value for object (or createdObject for create()) in the return or callback, the previous value will be reassigned to it.  If you do not run the callback in afterCreate, then create() will never respond with its callback.  Finally, all assigned hooks will be run in the order they were added.
